# Church-Management-System
A Church Management System that automates the manual processes of our church.

A system to automate the processes of our church. Currently, all of the processes in our church are being done manually. The membership information is done manually and just typed on an excel file. The attendance is done by a piece of paper being passed around. The prayer requests are done on a piece of paper. There's a lot more processes being done manually and we're looking to transition everything to an automated process. We've planned to deliver the solutions in phases.

For the phase 1 of our Church Management System, which we are currently working on right now, we've automated the membership information system and the attendance system. We've created a web application (which will only be installed on our local network at church) that stores the membership information on the database. The system also assigns a unique Membership Identification Number to each member and generates a QR Code for it and stores it as an image. The system is also designed to send an automated email to the member and attached to it is their QR Code. What is the QR Code for? This is where the Attendance System comes in. As part of our automated solution, we stationed a computer on our church entrance and the system has the ability to scan the QR Code using a QR Code Scanner. Upon entry, the member will just present the QR Code that was emailed to them and upon scanning, it automatically signs their attendance.

We are planning to develop the whole Church Management System with the goal of automating all processes, from Membership, Attendance, Financial Reports, Events Organizing, News, Calendar of Activities, and many more. All those incorporated on a single system.
